---
layout: post
title: Welcome to my blog!
---
# Introduction
As this is my first post on this blog, I'll briefly introduce myself.  
I am Bert Verschaeve, student Applied Informatics at the University College Ghent. At the moment I am on an Erasmus program and I study at the Technical University in Ostrave (Czech Republic).  

In this blog, I'll discuss some news about Linux and technology in general, as well as some open-source projects I found on the web and I thought they were interesting.  

# How I made this blog
To be honest, I am not a programming guy. So, I wanted to make a blog without writing long blocks of HTML, CSS and Javascript. Wordpress is cool, but you need a hosting provider or a VPS, install a database,...  

I ran into an article on the web about Jekyll. Jekyll is a service that converts plain text into a website. I highly recommend to take a look at [this](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/) article. Just fork (or download) the repository, change some parameters in the `_config.yml` file and enjoy your new blog!  

You also don't need to care about hosting. GitHub offers **GitHub** pages which will host the content of a repository in your own github.io subdomain (in my case https://berthg.github.io). The fork is created to use your own root domain, but you also can use a project domain. If the name of your repository is `blog`, your blog will be hosted on https://username.github.io/blog. If you choose to use a project domain, there will be some slightly changes you have to apply before your blog is up and running.  

# What next?
I'll be discussing 'Wireguard' in the near future. Wireguard is a rather new protocol in the VPN world but it is very promising. The encryption should be state-of-the-art and the installation should be easy.  
I'll also write something about 'Nextcloud', the private cloud that's easy to use and easy to set up. So, keep an eye on the blog if you're interested in these topics.

# Questions?
Of course, if there are any questions or recommendations for blog posts, feel free to drop me an e-mail on bert [dot] verschaeve [at] protonmail [dot] com