---
layout: post
title: CodiMD
---

# CodiMD

This year, I'm using Markdown for all my notes. I mostly write them on GitHub or use Visual Studio Code and publish them on GitHub. But the only thing I miss is the ability to collaborate. Collaboration usin Git is possible, but not at the same time, otherwise you have issuesand you have to merge. And most of the times I had to merge, I was in serious trouble :smile: 
  
## What is CodiMD?
So, I found an open-source self-hosted instance called "CodiMD". CodiMD is software that runs a webservice where you can write Markdown. Users have to make accounts on the server and than you're able to share Markdown files and work together. This is a great alternative to Google Docs.

## Why should I use CodiMD?
* If you want a great Markdown editor you can use on the way (on a tablet, public pc,...), you might want to take a look at it. 
* If you want something that saves your files automatically. In CodiMD, files are saved automatically (so no manual saving, no pushes to Github).
* If you want a Markdown service that is is easy to work together. Share links like u used to do with Google Docs and work simultaneously.
* If you want a more friendly Markdown environment. There are buttons for bold, italic, URLs, images, tables,... It's the perfect match between a WYSIWIG editor and a code IDE
* If you want an easy way to decide which files may be public and which need to be private.

## But what about versioning?

One of the main reasons people use Git is because they want a way to keep versions of their work. No problem, also this is available in CodiMD. There's also a possibility to download the MD files if you want to save them on Github.

## OK! I'm convinced. How do I get this?

If you have a server/VPS with Docker installed, installing CodiMD is really easy. I used the docker image from Linuxserver.io. The command to pull it from the Docker hub is `docker pull linuxserver/codimd`. 

But, CodiMD also needs a database running. So, if you have a database server installed, create a new database for CodiMD and pass it with the parameters. If this is not the case, you might want to install an extra docker container with MariaDB or another database engine. I can recommend [this](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/mariadb) docker container but others work of course as well.

To configure the database for CodiMD, you need to pass the following parameters:
* **DB_HOST** - The dns name or IP of the database
* **DB_USER** - The user you created for the database
* **DB_PORT** - The port the database engine uses. The default port of MySQL is 3306
* **DB_NAME** - The name of the database you created for CodiMD

Other parameters that may be useful:
* **TZ** - The timezone. It is used to know when files are created

## Questions?

As always, if there are any questions or you experience problems installing CodiMD, feel free to drop me an e-mail. You can find my contact information on the about page.  

Also, if you have any recommendations for an article or you want to share some cool projects you found, feel free to contact me.
